The Pieces
    Pawns - move one square forwards. Have the option of moving
    one or two squares on their first move. Capture by moving one
    square diagonally forwards. Promoted to another piece if they
    reach the far end of the board.

    Knights - move in an L-shape - one square vertically and two
    squares horizontally, or one square horizontally and two
    squares vertically. Can jump over any pieces in its path.

    Bishops - move any number of squares diagonally in a straight
    line. May not jump over other pieces.

    Rooks - move any number of squares vertically or horizontally
    in a straight line. May not jump over other pieces.

    The Queen - moves any number of squares vertically,
    horizontally, or diagonally in a straight line. May not jump over
    other pieces.

    The King - moves one square in any direction. May not move
    onto a square threatened by an enemy piece.

Check and Checkmate
    Check - if the king is threatened by an enemy piece, he is in
    'check', and must escape from check. This can be done by
    moving the king, capturing the checking piece, or blocking the
    checking piece (so long as it isn't a knight).

    Checkmate - if the king is in check and can't get out of check,
    he is in checkmate and the game is lost.

Castling
    Castling - move the king two squares towards the rook, and jump
    the rook to the square on the other side of the king.

    You cannot castle if...
        You have previously moved your king or rook.
        There are pieces between your king and rook.
        Your king in check.
        Your king would be in check at the end of the move.
        Your king would cross a square that is threatened by an
        enemy piece.

En Passant
    En Passant - if you have a pawn on the fifth rank, and your
    opponent moves an adjacent pawn two squares, you can capture
    the pawn as if it had only moved one square.

    You cannot capture en passant if...
        Your pawn is not on the fifth rank.
        The enemy pawn did not move two squares on the previous
        move.